Google H5 Games Ads tutorial (#364)
playcanvas/developer.playcanvas.com: content/en/tutorials/google-ads-for-games.md

---

> title: Google Ads to monetize your Game

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Google Ads to Monetize your Game
```

layout: tutorial-page.hbs
tags: scripts, monetization, games
thumb: https://s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/images.playcanvas.com/projects/12/889095/DE8018-image-75.jpg
---

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/K2WWSnfJk4o" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Links for this tutorial:
- [Flappy Bird Demo][flappy-bird-ads-demo]
- [Tutorial template project][tutorial-template-start]
- [Google AdSense Documentation][google-afg-docs]

## Introduction

> This tutorial will show you how to integrate Ads from Google AdSense into your games and help monetize.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial will show you how to integrate Ads from Google AdSense into your games for the purpose of monetization.
```

The Ads come in two main forms:

> Interstitial Ads that can appear between sessions of play such as going from game over back to the main menu (think of them as the ad breaks on TV shows)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Interstitial Ads that can appear between sessions of play such as going from 'game over' back to the main menu. Think of them as the ad breaks on TV shows.
```

In our [Flappy Bird example][flappy-bird-ads-demo], we have the ads show after the player dies and return to the main menu to play again.

![][flappy-bird-demo-interstitial-ad]

The second form are Rewarded Ads that the player can choose to play in order to get a 'reward' such as coins or being able to continue playing. These are considered to be effective as they give players the option to watch an ad rather than being forced to and they also get an immediate in-game reward.

In our example, we use rewarded ads to allow the user to continue after dying which tends to be a strong incentive for users to watch an ad.

![][flappy-bird-demo-rewarded-ad]

> For the tutorial we are going to fork the [Google H5 Ad Tutorial (Start)][tutorial-template-start] and add the ad SDK library and functionality  bit by bit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the tutorial we are going to fork the [Google H5 Ad Tutorial (Start)][tutorial-template-start] project and add the ad SDK library and functionality bit by bit.
```

The end result will look like this where we can call the interstitial and rewarded ads via button clicks and the refresh button will be used to check if the rewarded ads can be shown (more on this later).

<iframe src="https://playcanv.as/e/p/OkynewOO/" title="Finished Tutorial"></iframe>

## Setting up

Go to the [Google H5 Ad Tutorial (Start)][tutorial-template-start] project dashboard page and click on 'fork' and let's take a look at the project.

> This is a simple project where it's ready for us to add the button click callbacks to show the ads in the `ui-controller.js`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a simple project where it's ready for us to add the button click callbacks to show the ads in the `ui-controller.js` script:
```

```
// ...
// initialize code called once per entity
UiController.prototype.initialize = function() {
    this.rewardedGivenPanelEntity.enabled = false;
    this.rewardedAdButtonEntity.button.active = false;

    var onRefresh = function () {

    }.bind(this);

    this.refreshButtonEntity.button.on('click', function (e) {
        onRefresh();
    }, this);

    this.interstitialAdButtonEntity.button.on('click', function(e) {

    }, this);

    this.rewardedAdButtonEntity.button.on('click', function (e) {

    }, this);

    this.okRewardButtonEntity.button.on('click', function (e) {
        this.rewardedGivenPanelEntity.enabled = false;
    }, this);
};
```

> First step is to add the Google SDK integration files which we can do by copying the folder 'Adsense for Games' from the [Flappy Bird project][flappy-bird-ads-demo].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first step is to add the Google SDK integration files which we can do by copying the folder 'Adsense for Games' from the [Flappy Bird project][flappy-bird-ads-demo].
```

- disabling/enabling rendering

```
(function() {
    var app = pc.Application.getApplication();

    window.adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || [];
    var afg = {};

    afg.adBreak = window.adConfig = function(o) {adsbygoogle.push(o);};
    afg.ready = false;

    var onReady = function() {
        afg.ready = true;
    };

    // Config the ad setup
    adConfig({
        // https://developers.google.com/ad-placement/docs/preload-ads
        preloadAdBreaks: 'on',
        // https://developers.google.com/ad-placement/docs/manual-sequence
        onReady: onReady,
    });

    // Create help functions to disable input and sound
    var _mouseTargetElement = null;
    var _keyboardTargetElement = null;
    var _touchTargetElement = null;
    var _beforeAdVolume = null;
    var _beforeAdTimeScale = null;
    var _beforeAutoRender = null;

    afg.onBeforeAd = function () {
        // Currently using private API for this. May need to be updated
        // if PlayCanvas engine is updated
        _mouseTargetElement = app.mouse._target;
        _keyboardTargetElement = app.keyboard._element;

        if (app.touch) {
            _touchTargetElement = app.touch._element;

>         }

Reviewer: Not ideal so maybe we can revisit this at some point to avoid messing with engine internals.

Author: Yep, it's a bit odd that we have public API that reassigns the target HTML element but not to get the element from the input handlers

        app.keyboard.attach(_keyboardTargetElement);

        if (app.touch) {
            app.touch.attach(_touchTargetElement);
        }

        app.systems.sound.volume = _beforeAdVolume;
        app.timeScale = _beforeAdTimeScale;
        app.autoRender = _beforeAutoRender;
    };

    window.afg = afg;
})();
```

## Adding an Interstitial Ad

Let's start with adding an interstitial ad to the project.

Add the following code to the interstitial ad button click event callback in `ui-controller.js`:

```
// ...
this.interstitialAdButtonEntity.button.on('click', function(e) {
    if (afg.ready) {
        afg.adBreak({
            type: 'start',
            name: 'test-interstitial',
            beforeAd: () => { afg.onBeforeAd(); },
            adBreakDone: () => { afg.onAfterAd(); onRefresh(); }
        });
    }
}, this);
// ...
```

Here, we check if the Google SDK is ready first before calling `adBreak` which is the function exposed by the Google SDK itself. More documentation and options can be found on [their site][adbreak-docs]. For the example, we will use:

- `type` which has to be one on these types from the Google SDK documentation

> - `name` which can be any name we give and is used for reporting in AdSense

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `name` which can be any name we want and is used for reporting in AdSense
```

- `beforeAd` which is the callback to execute code before the ad is shown

> - `adBreakDone` which is the callback that is called after the ads is shown if even if the ad didn't show for any reason

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `adBreakDone` which is the callback that is called after the ad is shown (even if the ad didn't show for any reason)
```

> As you can see we use our helper functions `onBeforeAd` and `onAfterAd` in the callbacks to handle the common areas to 'pause' the game before the ad 'resume' afterwards as covered before. You may want to add extra custom logic here for your own game if there are specific areas in your game that you would want to handle.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you can see, we use our helper functions `onBeforeAd` and `onAfterAd` in the callbacks to handle the common areas to 'pause' the game before the ad 'resume' afterwards as covered before. You may want to add extra custom logic here for your own game if there are specific areas in your game that you would want to handle.
```

> Now lets see it in action

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now lets see it in action!
```

![][copy-afg-folder]

And pasting into our fork of the tutorial project.

![][paste-afg-folder]

Let's take a look inside:

[`afg-intergration.js`][afg-intergration.js] adds Google's SDK to the page and also sets the time between ads being served to the user which we can change if need be. For the tutorial, we have also enabled test mode to show placeholders instead of real ads.

`ca-pub-XXXXXXXXX` will need to be replaced with your own [Publisher ID][google-publisher-id] from Google Adsense.

```
// https://developers.google.com/ad-placement/docs/example
(function() {
    var script = document.createElement('script');
    script.setAttribute('crossorigin', 'anonymous');

    // Comment out to disable test mode
    script.setAttribute('data-adbreak-test', 'on');

    // Ad frequency is user configuble
    // https://developers.google.com/ad-placement/docs/ad-rate
    script.setAttribute('data-ad-frequency-hint', '30s');

    // Comment in if you would like to use a specific channel for ad reporting
    // https://developers.google.com/ad-placement/docs/advanced-reporting
    // script.setAttribute('data-ad-channel', 'XXXXXX');

>     script.src = 'https://pagead2.googlesyndication.com/pagead/js/adsbygoogle.js?client=ca-pub-2682356268914970';

Reviewer 2: nit: use `ca-pub-XXXXXXXXX` here to match the wording before this code snippet.

Author: Thanks!

>     script.src = 'https://pagead2.googlesyndication.com/pagead/js/adsbygoogle.js?client=ca-pub-2682356268914970';

Author: ```suggestion
    script.src = 'https://pagead2.googlesyndication.com/pagead/js/adsbygoogle.js?client=ca-pub-XXXXXXXXX';
```

>     document.head.appendChild(script);

Reviewer 2: Please update this section. We know use slightly different flavor of adding adsbygoogle.js. It's been used by the AdSense for a while (6+ months) but only know we updated ad-placement docs to reflect it. You can see it here: https://developers.google.com/ad-placement/docs/example#indexhtml_web

The main benefit is that client is now added in adsbygoogle.js url itself so we can faster load ad-placement API. Which is important for preroll ads.

Author: Sorry, what would you need it changed to? We can't embed script tags in the html due to the way the Editor projects work if that's what is being suggested?

This function is called first thing in the project, before the engine load and even before the assets are loaded.

Author: Oh wait, is it just the url and format that needs to be changed here?

Reviewer 2: Yes. I meant you should add `adsbygoogle.js?client=ca-pub-XXXXXXXXX`, remove `data-ad-client` attribute and add `crossorigin=anonymous` attribute on the constructed script tag.
